[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Throughout mankind's
history, all across the globe,
there has been an
awareness of something
more than our everyday reality.
Hidden worlds, other
dimensions, spiritual planes--
call it what you
like, each culture
has their own interpretation
of this concept, the concept
of a reality that is
beyond our five senses,
yet still has a profound impact
on our known physical world
and existence.
Could there be truth
behind this idea?
>>Outside of the
visible universe,
which we can see
such a tiny part of,
are vast dimensions over
and above this plane.
>>Our journey is to
make known the unknown.
That's the simple imperative.
>>I would say that
what is happening
is we increase our awareness.
>>Is the reality that we can see
and feel and measure and hear
and touch and all of
that, is that all?
Or is there more to it?
>>I think if we really
listened with the heart
and we learned to
see more, see beyond.
>>If someone thinks they
know how reality works,
it's simply because they
don't have enough information.
>>Why have we decided that
there are only five senses?
>>As we expand in
consciousness, we
become aware that there's
more to us and the universe
that we live in than
anybody would comprehend
or even fathom.
>>We're going from three
dimensional reality
into multiple dimensions.
And it's just another step.
It's always there.
It's always existed.
And now we're
becoming aware of it.
>>When it first started with the
big bang, 13 billion years ago,
there was already an
enormous consciousness
in that act that had all
the potentiality in it that
would allow the physical to
evolve into what it is now.
>>For centuries upon
centuries, the human race
has existed in this hypnotic
state, a trance state
I call it, of believing we're
the center of everything.
>>When Columbus discovered
America, as we say--
we know now that he did
not discover America--
but when he came
to America in 1492.
And thinking about how much--
there were people who said,
no, the Earth is flat.
And if you sail
in that direction,
you're going to
fall off the edge.
It was a two dimensional
world back then.
And that was what
people believed in.
>>If you're a bug
in a piece of paper,
you're aware of this direction
and this direction, two
dimensions.
Yes?
And then you're a
rabbit, jumping around.
You're aware of
three dimensions.
The human is aware also of time.
We can plan ahead.
Yes?
Animals seem to be living
in the moment all the time.
And it seems like,
when you graduate
from where you are
and look further,
you have access to
another dimension.
And that's what seems
to be happening.
>>All cultures around the
world have their own concept
of other dimensions, heaven
and hell, higher planes,
Bardos of the Buddhists.
Indigenous cultures
all have a concept
of other realms,
other dimensions.
>>What could happen if you
look even through the Hubble
telescope and see
the range of what's
there, even in the
visible universe,
within that narrow
slot that we can see?
What's in the
invisible universe,
which is equally real.
>>We know very little
about who we are.
We know very little about
how our brain works,
how our body works, and how we
create the nature of reality.
We don't even really know what
the word consciousness means.
>>Culturally, we're
misinformed and uneducated
about other realms
and other dimensions.
In our world, they're made
into fantasies or demonized.
This is probably why we have
such a hard time understanding
these spheres of
light, called orbs,
that are appearing in people's
photographs all over the world.
>>Our appreciation,
our awareness
of what we call the paranormal
or the occult, worse again,
has been shaped by Hollywood and
Halloween hauntings and ghouls
and vampires and fearsome
extraterrestrials oozing slime.
That's the way we think of
the paranormal or the realms
of reality outside of ours.
So that's the worst
possible preparation
that we could have
for understanding
what the phenomenon
of orbs has to tell us
about the nature of reality.
>>These lights have
always been here.
They were painted in the
Renaissance, 1700s, 1800s.
They were called cherubs.
They were called pootie.
And in the more
traditional sense,
they're called orbs, because
we don't see them with wings.
The Renaissance painters, and
those people who saw them,
painted wings only because
they flew through the air.
And it's the way
to capture, in art,
the aerodynamic
levitational quality
of a brilliant presence.
>>As far as light
spheres or orbs,
they're throughout history.
And they're in paintings,
they're in frescoes.
>>If you go to Europe and
see all those old paintings
of the saints with the
circles around their head,
I have orbs like that.
I have taken pictures of
orbs around a person's head
that look very similar to that.
Now maybe they were very
perceptive at that time,
and they didn't need
cameras to see it.
>>When you compare historical
art images to orb photographs,
some of the similarities
are quite remarkable.
>>Artists are always people
with heightened sensitivity.
And it seems that, when you
look at early paintings,
either they are painting
things that they actually saw
or they are symbolically
conveying a higher
truth that they
were experiencing.
>>Our technology has developed
a tool, the digital camera,
that allows all of us
to be visionary artists
and see past the veil that
separates the dimensions.
>>But if these alternative
planes of reality exist,
what is it that
keeps them separate
from our everyday reality?
Is it some kind of
dimensional fog,
a cosmic veil obscuring
hidden truths?
And what if that
veil began to lift?
What would we experience?
>>I had had pictures of
orbs using a regular film
camera for many years before.
I remember I took
some in Spain, which
I have looked back at now.
And there they are, you
know, bright and clear orbs.
Even though, at
that time, I thought
it was some camera or
photoelectric effect
that I wasn't familiar with.
For me, it's not the
amassing of a big collection
of pictures, but
what this tells us
about the nature of the
universe in which we live.
My entire life
has been searching
for what I can find out about
the truth concerning reality.
And if someone said, it's
very strange for a person
with your background to
be where you are now.
I would say, it's not
in the least strange
if you understand that what
I was always searching for,
to the best of my
ability, was the truth.
>>When I first discovered orbs,
it was at Sattva Sanctuary.
While we were there,
people were getting
things on their digital
camera that I'd never
seen before, these
balls of light.
We took the family
back to experiment.
So the four of us were
standing out in the field.
And at first, there was nothing.
Then suddenly, in the
next shot, the orbs
were pouring in all over us.
We were surrounded by orbs.
When we first
discovered the orbs,
I was amazed, delighted, and
frightened at the same time.
I thought that I had
reality figured out.
At my age, you kind of think
you've put it together.
And then all of a sudden,
I had to open my worldview
to this whole new paradigm,
that we were living side
by side with these
other dimensions.
After taking several
hundred orb pictures,
suddenly this mist
or plasma started
showing up on the camera.
The mist seems like it's
made up of small orbs that
are all grouped together.
As a photographer,
the orb phenomenon
has been truly amazing.
I'm used to setting
up a composition
and seeing what's going
to be in a photograph.
Suddenly with the
orbs, I was setting up
a composition and co-creating
inter-dimensional art.
>>I'm a musician, an
artist, so, to me,
everything is harmony
and patterns and cycles.
When I first discovered orbs,
I was playing a concert.
And it was really odd, because
the crowd wasn't that big,
but it felt like there were
so many more people there.
I felt like, subjectively,
like I was in an amphitheater.
And then when I saw the
pictures people were taking,
we were flooded with orbs.
There were many, many
somethings there with me.
Around that time, we went to a
tree down by the Columbia River
that people told us had
very special energy.
And a picture was
taken of my son, Seth.
We asked him what he was
thinking at this moment, when
this light bulb went
off over his head,
and he said he was wondering
if this stuff could be real
and if it could have
anything to do with him.
The feeling when the orbs
come in, it's very familiar.
It's like when you
see a beautiful sunset
or you have a moment
of inspiration
or when you have a peak
moment in your meditation.
>>My background is
with the dolphins.
I am actually a psychologist.
And that's helped me
a lot in communicating
with dolphins and whales.
And because I've been swimming
with them for over 25 years,
I have learned so
many things from them.
And that is probably
the first place
where I saw the
orbs, in the ocean.
It's a very interesting
phenomena in the ocean,
because you can see orbs
better than in the air.
The dolphins remind me, and
all of those swimming with me,
that there are many things that
we cannot always see but that
exist.
>>I always saw
lights, even when I
was a little girl in the
cotton fields of New Mexico.
Most children do see them.
And most children are very
comfortable with seeing
these lights.
It's the-- it's the adults
that grow out of seeing them.
>>All of this, really, is done
together with my wife, Gundi.
Gundi and I got a call one day
from our spiritual teacher,
whether we would shoot some
pictures at his upcoming event.
And that evening, when I
downloaded the pictures
into my computer, I
discovered that there
was something in
the pictures that
didn't make any sense to me.
It looked like a light bulb.
I looked at this thing.
Couldn't make any sense
out it whatsoever.
And I said, maybe
there was something.
And so I literally went down to
the ballroom of that conference
center and looked at it.
There was absolutely nothing
that I could think of--
and decided there has
to be something to it.
>>As Klaus mentioned
before, we had the privilege
of being volunteer
photographers quite a few times.
And then all of a sudden,
we discovered orbs.
And then the photography became
even more exciting for me.
Because I immediately saw
beautiful mandalas in those
orbs.
Especially if you enlarge the
circle, you see the interiority
and there are beautiful symbols
in them in different colors.
I was just absolutely
fascinated,
and we couldn't get enough
of taking more pictures.
And I feel very lucky to
be married to a scientist.
He understands energy from
a different perspective.
I just feel it and
sense it and know
it to be true and know
it to be effective.
And he can add some
explanations to it.
I know the moment we saw these
beautiful designs out there,
I thought, well,
there is a meaning.
We can discover it.
>>Could there really
be invisible spheres
of light floating all around us
that we are somehow now seeing
with our technology?
How could something like that
be scientifically possible?
>>The real purpose
of science is to move
us step by step towards a deeper
understanding of our universe.
>>For a long time,
in physics, we
have believed that
the speed of light
is the veil, is the
end of everything.
That's the fastest there is.
And there is nothing
faster than that.
It is now very clear
to notable physicists
that the speed of light
is not at all the barrier,
that it's not at all the
veil, that there is more,
and that, in fact, there is
a continuum of our reality
that goes way beyond
the speed of light.
And I would think that
which we intuitively
call the spiritual
reality is probably
the one that starts
at the speed of light
and goes way beyond,
orders of magnitude greater
than the speed of light.
>>You have to have an
inter-dimensional mind
to do this kind of research.
You're not going to do
it with physical objects,
because you're having a
non-physical experience.
>>The true thinkers imagined,
in their thought experiments--
Einstein had
thought experiments.
He didn't work in a laboratory.
>>It always occurred to me
that it was extremely strange
that we regard
what we see, which
is a very narrow range of
the visible light spectrum,
and everything outside
of that is somehow
regarded as preternatural or
supernatural or paranormal
or any of these labels just
because we can't see it.
>>To expect to see
it, to believe it,
is you would be missing
99.9% of reality.
>>We live in a seeing
is believing culture.
And now that we can actually
photograph other dimensions
and see them, will
people believe?
>>All the cutting edge
scientists, right now,
are coming to the
same conclusion,
that we live in this sea of
consciousness and everything
is connected.
It's this quantum field.
>>Science, at its
heart, was endeavoring
to explain the wonderful world,
the wonderful realm that we
live in-- and to
explain it in ways
that people can understand.
So there's no longer
superstition about the sun,
you know, that we were
actually going around it
instead of it going around us.
>>I think the unseen has got
a big boost in recent years
because out of the
unseen, now, in our time,
has come nuclear radiation,
x-rays, et cetera-- stuff that
can kill us out of the unseen.
So the fact that
a thing is unseen
is no longer the
same as saying it's
irrelevant or not important.
>>I was trying to make a
bridge between the scientific
and the spiritual.
Making this kind of a
bridge, as a scientist,
has been my preoccupation
for a long time.
And the orbs fit very well
into that whole effort.
In fact, they became the
main focus of this effort.
>>Definitely, we
should study them.
We should study
them scientifically.
And we should study them with
the head, right, but also
with our hearts.
The orbs kind of forces
us, forces our scientists
to do it not just with
instruments but to do it
with their feelings as well, so
forcing us to be more complete,
a better human being.
>>My eye takes in all of this.
The brain filters out 90% of
it, and I see a small fraction,
the fraction that's important
for me to live my life today.
Now orbs don't usually
fit into that slot.
We don't need orbs, you
know, to pay our mortgages
or take our children
to school or daycare.
>>I've even had people--
I'll be pointing,
I'll say, look, there's
the dolphins out there
in the ocean.
Can you see them?
They're, they're
in the distance.
They're coming toward us.
And people cannot see them.
I cannot see them.
Where are they?
And often that's because
they're not used to seeing them.
They don't know what they
look like in the ocean yet.
And so they don't see them.
But once they learn
about them and begin
to open their
awareness to dolphins,
then they see them
more and more.
And the same thing with
these spheres of light.
>>My working hypothesis is
that they move extremely fast,
that they're all around, that
they're not just one or two,
but there may be
many, hundreds of them
all around us, all the
time, except that they
are moving so fast that
nobody is seeing them.
>>Your eye, by the way,
sees them all around you.
Because it's a lens on a camera.
It's your brain
that's not seeing it.
Thanks to science
and technology,
we have sophisticated
equipment that we can actually
see this marvelous
dimension that's around us
and open ourselves up to a
new realm and a new future.
>>There's a lot of people
who are absolutely, totally
convinced that what
they can see is
all there is, what they can
measure is all there is.
>>There have always
been skeptics.
And isn't that wonderful?
Because skeptics honor everyone
by having people define
if this is a belief system
or this is a true experience.
>>At first I thought
that the orbs were
water drops in the air
and somehow the flash
will produce them, like a lens.
But then that didn't work.
Because I took
pictures in the rain,
and then you see the drops
falling but not orbs.
And then I got orbs
during the summer,
where it's very, very dry
here in Northern California.
>>When I discovered
the orb phenomenon,
I took my photographs
and wanted everyone
to see how exciting
it was that we can now
photograph other dimensions.
Now I know that, if someone is
not ready to open themselves up
to this, all the photographs in
the world won't convince them.
>>I think, for the first
time, we can really
see clear-cut evidence that
is very difficult to refute.
Now obviously,
there are people who
try to refute that and who say
that orbs are just diffraction
phenomena, dust particles,
or water droplets
or whatever might be in the air.
There are skeptics.
And so that's why I then devoted
a lot of time and research
into this subject area to make
sure that I was on solid ground
and not dealing with easily
explainable phenomena.
>>The obvious objection
that most skeptics make
is that these are dust
or water particles that
are very close to the
lens reflecting light
from the flash.
The problem with this is,
if you do this deliberately,
these are always blurry,
indistinct little blobs
and really look
nothing like true orbs.
True orbs, in focus, have a
very complex pattern in them.
And they look the
same, regardless
of environmental conditions.
Dry, dusty, wet-- the
orbs look the same.
>>So I looked into all the
possibilities, that it was dust
or it was rain or
it was pollen or it
was insects and all
the different things.
And I just wasn't
convinced that that's
what it is, because I have
seen orbs in so many locations,
in so many different
circumstances.
>>Obviously, Joan Ocean, she
took orb images underwater.
That would be very
hard to refute.
>>Some people are
so reluctant to move
that I've been accused
of faking them.
I'm flattered ecause
it would imply
a knowledge of
digital photography
which, unfortunately,
I don't possess.
>>We all know that there are
counterfeit $20 bills around.
But the fact that
they are around
does not mean that the
$20 bill in your pocket
is not worth $20.
And I think this is the
way we have to look at it.
I mean, Miceal Ledwith,
alone, has a collection
of well over 100,000 orb images.
>>You can catch them in motion.
And if you do
calculations, you'll
find they are moving
extremely fast
to create that kind of a
smear during the short period
of the flash or even the
period that the lens is open.
And they're generally
not drifting.
They're moving up or
sideways, anything but down,
the way particles would move.
>>If you have consecutive images
that show a particular orb,
with particular
features, and it shows
this orb in different
locations, in different images.
And we have series of pictures
where the orb actually
changes the size,
changes the rotation,
and the location in
subsequent images.
This could not be done
with a water droplet
or with a dust particle.
>>After taking thousands of
photographs with orbs in them
and seeing them relate
to people and energies,
there's no doubt in my mind
that there's something to this.
>>Orb pictures, for the first
time, are real evidence.
They are not just
anecdotal evidence.
They're not just hearsay.
>>To really investigate
this, if you're
really serious and
interested, you
have to take many
photographs over time.
Because I feel that
the true evidence
may be somewhat subjective.
But as it builds up, it
becomes overwhelming.
>>I mean I've met a lot
of people who don't really
think that orbs are real.
And then they see one
on their own camera,
in their own pictures,
and that's all it takes.
>>Everybody who has
a digital camera
can, in principle, see it.
So it opens up a
whole new chapter
of our physical
confrontation with reality
and our quest to know
more about that reality.
>>If orbs and other
dimensions really do exist,
what would be their
relevance to our lives?
>>I know, therefor, from
my investigation or orbs,
that I am living a
frequency based universe.
The orbs vindicate that to me.
Every time I see them
or photograph them,
in all their manifest
forms, it's a proof to me
that we're in a
frequency based universe,
and the type of reality that
we experience every day depends
on how you and I are projecting
ourselves onto that universe.
>>The more you meditate, the
more you focus on love and joy
and bliss, your
frequencies move up.
The more your
frequencies move up,
the more access you have
to these other planes
and dimensions.
And you start knowing from an
inner knowingness, a higher
consciousness and energy.
And that's when the whole
universe starts opening up.
>>To me, the concept
of higher vibration
really means harmonized
or coherent vibration.
After all, the world
is a rich palette
of vibrations and cycles.
And it's really about
finding harmony and balance
between the elements.
>>Ron Roth is a noted
spiritual healer.
And so he would touch
people with his hands
or he would just
doing movements.
And there, often orbs
show up right at his arm
that he uses for
healing or at his head.
>>Orbs are often seen
around energy healers.
Are they coming because they're
attracted to the energy that's
being put out or are they
coming to help with the healing?
>>There is a person whom
we know quite well, who
is a very intuitive
Native American.
He did an experiment that
was absolutely phenomenal.
He said, I can
demonstrate to you
that I can concentrate my
thought outside of my head.
And you will be able to
see it on the photograph.
And then he said, so
get your camera ready
and I will tell you
when to shoot a picture.
And then, after a few seconds,
he said, now, take the picture.
And the picture shows a very
bright, orb-like feature
right next to his head, where
he concentrated his thought
energy.
At first, obviously,
if he can do that,
if he can concentrate
it here, he
can concentrate it in
between your hands.
He can concentrate it anywhere.
It doesn't matter how close.
Distance has no real
influence on that.
So this may have shed a
whole new set of lights
on the aspect of
distant healing,
of concentrating your thought
onto a person who may be sick
and may be in need of healing.
>>Here we have explanation
of how subtle energy
healing really works and
even distant healing.
They can be in any
place, any time.
>>My experience with orbs
has led me to the conclusion
that things from our interior
world, that we may think
are purely subjective-- our
inner voices, our subtle shifts
of mood and emotion,
our guides, our angels--
these things really have an
effect on our exterior reality.
They can exert a force on our
surroundings, on our existence,
and sometimes even
be photographed.
>>Moving the body
in sacred positions
really encourages the orbs.
The more energy that we can
run through our physical body,
the more the orbs seem to come.
Whether it's dance
or yoga or Tai Chi,
find your own way to run
energy through your body.
>>The person is in
peace with themselves,
so they attract the orbs.
When they meditate,
when they manage
to quiet their inner selves
and they lower the RPMs,
the orbs come.
When they play music-- see
music is very interesting.
Except for a few exceptions,
you don't play music for money.
You play music just for
yourself or to create
an atmosphere for
your friends as well.
So you're in a giving mode.
And that will attract the orbs.
>>Music and joy, dance and fun
seem to consistently attract
the orbs, so do altars, sacred
spaces, sacred geometries
and symbols.
All these types of
things seem to have
an attraction for the orbs.
I made this gong garden and some
of my sacred energy sculptures
primarily just to satisfy
my own creative impulse.
However, it seems that the orbs
appreciate my efforts as well.
>>When I'm taking
orb pictures, I
know that it's very
important for me
to send out loving
energy because that's
what attracts them.
Often, I'll sing or I'll tone.
I've seen, time and time again,
when Randy pulls out a flute
and starts playing, the
orbs come in immediately.
The orbs love music.
>>We had a fabulous singer.
And at the end of the
seminar, Ron Roth thanked her.
And he took his arm around her.
And I took a picture of that.
And there was an orb
right at her mouth,
just perfectly located.
>>Since Randy and I've
been playing with the orbs'
attraction to music,
we were very excited
that Maestro Ali
Akbar Khan allowed
us to come to one of his classes
in North Indian classical music
to record and look for orbs.
>>[SINGING IN  FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
>>The purpose of the music
is to translate vibrations
from higher dimensions
down into our plane, where
it can help us attain
balance and harmony.
Ali Akbar Khan continues to
teach many classes a week
at age 85.
His priority has always been
to keep the traditional alive
and to pass it along.
>>After the class was
over, his son, Alam Khan,
did a private
concert for us so we
could shoot for orb pictures.
And they were all over.
>>Specific tones can
be used to stimulate
specific organs,
parts of the body,
invoke certain
moods or energies.
In India, they have studied
this phenomenon for millennia.
To quote Ali Akbar Khan,
if more people would study
Indian classical
music, we might have
a better chance at world peace.
Certain ragas are
known to stimulate
certain areas of the
body and, in fact,
can be used for healing.
These ragas are intended to be
played at specific times of day
to synchronize with
the natural cycles.
And it can bring
healing and harmony
to someone to use them correctly
and dis-ease and discomfort
if they're used incorrectly.
>>If the common bond
between dimensions
is frequency or vibration,
is there anything
that someone could do
to experience the orb
phenomenon for themselves?
>>We like to suggest
to people that you
create an event
to look for orbs.
>>If you look too
earnestly for them,
they are often
nowhere to be found.
And when you relax, have
fun, and do it from joy,
they crowd around
like curious children.
>>Some tips on
having successful orb
hunts-- go with
a group of people
that are ready to have fun.
Having fun together is really
a prerequisite to finding orbs.
Also singing or dancing or
playing a musical instrument
will bring in the energies.
Going to a sacred place,
whether it's a church
or somewhere in the forest
that's special to you.
And then be ready to
shoot and shoot and shoot.
Just keep taking pictures
and taking pictures.
You never know when the
area will be cultivated
and the orbs will decide
to descend on you.
Be sure your flash is on.
Because even though they
are caught without a flash,
certainly having the
flash on makes it easier.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>They love celebrations,
joy, and fun and singing
and dancing.
>>I have noticed they come very
close to people when there's
a lot of feelings
being expressed
and a lot of what I
would call high wisdom,
which is intelligence
with kindness.
Think about these spheres of
light, these beautiful, plasma
spheres, these energy
lights, these orbs
and send them love
and ask them to come.
Say, please come.
And if you'd like to, you
can hold out your hands,
like that, and send
out energy toward them.
>>When the orbs start
coming in and you see them
in the back of your camera,
there's nothing quite like it.
>>In all the celebrations,
where we really
took the most pictures,
there was time
taken to create this,
I would call it,
sacred space that's
out here in nature,
right now, very naturally.
But if we're in
our home building,
sometimes we have to take
extra time to create it.
>>Children, especially,
are the ones
I've seen the orbs are most
attracted to because they're
innocent, and they're just in
that pure, blissful, no worries
mode.
>>They do, in fact,
love children's energy
and seem attracted
to animals as well.
>>I think that the orbs
come when I feel good.
So if I'm having a
good time, chances
are there are orbs around.
>>If there's anything
that you need
to do to see them
with your own camera,
or to catch them in your camera
if you will, what you do is,
with your mind, tell
them, please hold still.
And if you want to
be seen in my camera,
please hold still long enough
and beam into my camera.
And then they will do that.
It's very simple.
And it sounds absolutely weird.
But it is.
That's the way that
it appears to be.
That's my working hypothesis.
And this working hypothesis
hasn't been changed yet.
I personally cannot see them,
but I do know several people
who, apparently,
really can see an orb.
And they can tell
me, now this one here
came to rest right there.
Take a picture now.
Then they were there.
>>The phenomena of orbs made
me realize that so often we
focus on the physical.
We're always looking
at physical things.
I'm looking at the camera.
I'm looking at the scenery.
I'm looking at the flowers.
And what we don't look at, very
often, is the space in between.
So I began looking at that.
And that is where I
found I could see orbs,
if I practiced it.
>>The way your eyes are set
up, you see other dimensions
out the side of your eyes,
the way your cones are set up.
But when you look directly
at it, you'll lose the focus.
So if you can train
yourself to look off
to the side of what your
experiencing and not turn
objectively and look straight
at it, you can see it.
>>Orbs can be used as an
opening to communicate
with other realms
and dimensions.
And I'm not even talking
off-planet, extraterrestrial.
I'm talking right here,
right now, all around us.
>>I believe in taking the
pictures on a regular basis,
at the same time
every day, constantly,
not rushing out during the
breaks in the soap opera
commercials and
taking, you know,
10 or 15 pictures and
then saying, oh, you know,
I never saw anything worthwhile.
But if you decide to
commit yourself to this,
and you take what's very little
problem for a digital camera,
100, 200 pictures a
night, say for an hour
or so, certain strange
things are going to happen,
wonderful things
are going to happen.
>>With the attention
and intention
that we, each time, before
such an event, express,
they come more abundantly.
And then sometimes
we thought, well,
maybe it happens more
in this camera than
in this camera and all these
typical questions that come up.
But I think the most important
thing is really the intention.
>>Try inviting them
to appear, politely.
You may feel ridiculous.
But if you feel absurd,
out there, with the camera,
photographing the unseen
and start to giggle,
this is the type of energy that
will probably bring them in.
>>I think this is really
the call for everyone,
just enjoy and find out.
They'll show up.
>>In the past, you know, you
had to be a guru or a mystic
or some kind of saint to be
able to see these things,
whereas now all you need to do
is buy a cheap digital camera.
>>When these
photographs were taken
as a series of photographs
taken about three seconds apart,
I felt the most amazing
energy throbbing and pulsing
around me.
I felt love, and I felt
connected to the universe.
It was the most remarkable
experience for me
to have that documented.
I feel that all of us have
felt these moments, moments
when they were filled with
a vibrant, connected energy
and all felt right and in
balance and in the flow.
The thing is we
usually don't have
someone taking our picture.
>>I suppose it was maybe a
year or two after I started
taking the pictures of the orbs.
Certain extraordinary
phenomena started to occur.
If I hadn't been
warned in advance,
I might have been
scared at this point,
because of the burdens of
superstition we all carry.
And here I was, you know, I used
to take the pictures at night
at that time.
Because I was like
all of us, the error
of the tradition that the
supernatural and the paranormal
occurs at night.
So here I was out at maybe
12:00 midnight or 2:00
in the morning, pitch dark.
In midwinter this was.
I took these pictures.
And the whole place
was full of orbs.
I mean, I sort of
felt to myself,
I think I'm outnumbered here.
You know, you
almost feel, as they
say, like running in and pulling
the blanket over your head.
Though the protective effects
of a blanket have been vastly
overrated.
I always felt that the orbs
were there for participation
not observation.
So I often included
myself in the pictures,
even those there was
no one else there.
The camera was on automatic.
But after a while,
I noticed that-- I'd
come back and check the
pictures periodically--
that the orbs were breaking up.
That they were
losing their form.
And I saw them
starting to rotate.
And it got faster
and faster and faster
till the orbs had
entirely lost their shape.
And then it formed
a sort of tunnel.
I thought that this was very
similar to some of the things
that, say, a painter
like William Blake,
in Victorian times, had
pictured, a vortex of faces
and that, which must
be something related
to the tunnel of light
that so many people who
have had near death
experiences have talked about.
>>In my experience
with orbs, I feel
that they come from the
pool of consciousness,
the great, great source
of all consciousness.
And they are here to let us
have access to that, to join us,
and to open us to that reality.
>>It seems to be related
to this spirit world,
to the world that we cannot
see that has started unveiling.
>>I've come to believe
that these orbs are
conscious and loving beings.
But believe me,
I do not say this
lightly nor without a lot
of intellectual torment
and uncomfortable
paradigm shifts.
>>They've shown
me a universe that
is very different from
what I was taught.
Because they show me that there
are beings in other dimensions
of frequency that I cannot see
or touch because I am at this
frequency.
If I were at their
frequency, they
would be as solid as this
ground I'm standing on.
>>When they're in focus
and I blow them up,
they have a structure
like a cell.
That reinforces the idea
that it's a living being.
If it was just a
ray of light, why
it would have all these
intricate things inside?
So it gives me the idea that
it's another form of life
that we have yet to discover.
>>Orbs are consciousness, beings
that we haven't been trained
to see or understand--
at least not yet.
>>I really think the spiritual
beings that are behind the orbs
are seeing that now we
have a technology where
they can actually be seen.
So when you have
an orb picture, it
is not because you were
able to do something.
It was because the orbs decided
to show up in your camera.
>>Contained within this ball
is consciousness and energy,
ancient consciousness
and energy.
>>We're constantly discovering
new species on this planet,
so it should be no surprise
that there are other life
forms inhabiting the invisible
parts of our universe.
>>Like we use a microscope
to see the microbe,
now we're using the
camera to discover
these other forms of life.
Perhaps these ones are
very different to ours.
Maybe they are ephemeral, they
only live for a short while.
Or perhaps they don't die.
They are there all the time.
>>A sphere of energy
is a primal form,
one that we see many
times in nature--
a drop of water,
the shape of a cell.
And this shape forms naturally
under many conditions
and is easy to sustain.
>>There is a whole reality
of beings-- whatever
they are-- that are
conscious, around us.
There's something that
is actually-- goes back
to my spiritual
upbringing as a Christian.
And this brings a
whole new meaning
into this saying in the Bible.
We are surrounded by
a cloud of witnesses.
And it really is true.
We are actually surrounded.
We don't see them.
We don't see them because
they move so fast.
>>There are so many myths and
legends throughout history
depicting balls of
light, fairies, earth
elementals, gnomes.
Could they have been
talking about orbs?
>>You know, angels always
was, for me, a familiar term.
But you never could put
your fingers on them.
You know they must be somewhere,
helping us and enveloping us
in light and love and
hope and good feelings.
But now, with these beautiful
pictures, it has become real.
>>So when you say these may
be angels or anything else,
maybe this is how
the belief in angels
came about, because
people saw these things.
And maybe when they see
them as disincarnate spirits
or something else, it's because
they saw these realities
and put their own
stamp on what they
realized that they might be.
>>I think we're looking at a
whole ecosystem of the unseen,
which could include beings that
we traditionally, historically
have called fairies, gnomes,
elves, angels, ghosts, spirits,
and many others things.
>>The mystery of the orb
is the mystery of our self.
What they are is what we are
without the dressing of a body.
In other words,
when everybody dies,
the last thing that leaves the
body is a rapid ball of light.
This rapid ball of
light is what we
were from our very
roots and beginning.
Because what we are
is not the physical
construct that we find
ourself in as humanity.
Our human construct
is a necessity
to create in this
level of matter.
But what organizes matter,
what electrifies matter,
the pulse of light, itself,
is that ball of light.
And that's what we are.
>>From my understanding, we
are actually all orbs of light.
That's who we are.
We are surrounded by light.
And if you would see the light
without our physical form
or when the light is so bright,
we're like egg-shaped light.
And I have pictures of that.
It shows up in the
ocean more, where
you can see a light around
people who are swimming.
>>These are beings--
they're slightly, slightly,
not very much outside
of our present dimension
and frequency, not
very much at all.
And they belong to a realm where
you and I have been many times.
>>I like to think that, quite
a long time ago, perhaps when
the Earth was first
populated, many,
many beings came in
as thought forms.
That was our first reality.
We were here as thought forms,
light, spheres of light.
And eventually, these
spheres of light
decided to try out physical
form and go back and forth.
And then many beings began
to remain in the physical
and soon could no longer go back
into their light sphere form
again.
>>But if we're asking--
brass tacks here,
cut to the chase--
what is an orb?
It is what you and I are,
without the physical body.
And after we breathe
our last breath,
we then become
what's there-- which
is the greater part of this,
by the way-- an energy being,
extraordinarily powerful.
>>In reference to,
then, children,
they see these because they have
a close memory of being them.
So their acceptance
is wide open.
As they turn into teenagers,
these sweet memories
and these sweet
interactions of their mind
begin to fade with time.
And they're only
recalled later in life.
Now the storm starts
in one's life,
and we sort of lose that
childhood experience,
but we still are
what we were then.
>>Could the phenomenon
of orbs truly present
a singular explanation for
what we think of as our souls,
the mechanics of
life after death,
the existence of
guardian angels,
and even the concept of a
collective consciousness?
How could we have
been unaware of this?
>>There has been,
clearly, a veil
in our perceiving of reality.
>>When I began to learn this
stuff about the way reality
actually functions, the way
it is and why we're here,
I felt it's a terrible
injustice to people
that they don't know
about this stuff.
>>More and more orbs are
showing up in photographs
all over the world.
I believe that this is
happening because the veil
between dimensions is lifting.
There's a change going
on, frequencies shifting,
time taking on new meaning, and
mankind understanding existence
in a whole new light.
>>What does that really
mean, the veil is lifting?
It means that the
frequency is changing,
that we are moving into a
different frequency of light.
And so what was once a block,
and we couldn't see things,
now has been diffused and we're
able to see through the dark.
>>That veil is
lifting, with things
like seeing the orbs,
probably with things
like seeing crop circles.
I don't know, but it may very
well be the same kind of idea
that the veil is lifting.
>>My wife was visiting
the crop circles,
and she is very sensitive
and was telling me
all the emotions and what
was happening to her.
And she concluded that
the crop circles was a way
to reveal to us the world
that we normally don't see.
And the orbs could be a similar
part of the same pattern,
trying to make us accustomed
to other dimensions.
>>I do think that there are many
changes occurring on the planet
right now that makes it
possible for us to see orbs
and to photograph them.
Many people from
all walks of life
are having that experience.
>>I think this is a really
magnificent adventure opening
up for all of humanity,
to be able to capture,
for the first time, without
being a guru or a mystic
or fasting for 40 days,
to be able to capture,
at will, beings that are
of a different dimension
to ours is quite a new
experience in the history
of humanity.
>>This is just another thing
where we're getting clues,
more and more, that your and
my consciousness is not it.
We are just a part in a huge
continuum of consciousness
and of conscious beings.
>>Remember, it's science
that brought the technology
for people around the world to
see what's always been there.
This is not new.
It's new to disbelievers.
It's new to really do
realize you're never alone.
And it is new to realize an old
adage that everything you do
is seen.
>>The orbs are like
portals or windows
into that other dimension.
They're giving us
a sense of what
we can experience once we
open our belief system to it.
>>With an increase
in consciousness,
the whole system is
actually evolving.
And the whole system
is part of God.
That's what God is in my mind.
God is not just a
figure somewhere.
God is the entirety of
the consciousness that
has ever been,
that will ever be.
And since we are producing,
quote unquote, consciousness,
we are in fact evolving the
immensity of God himself,
of God itself.
We are instruments evolving God.
>>If there really is a
veil lifting and humanity
is entering a new chapter of
existence, what does it mean
and what can we do?
>>So I think this is going to
open up people's understanding
of what kind of universe
we're living in.
And it's vastly different
and vastly more encouraging,
vastly more hopeful, vastly
more empowering for all of us
than we ever thought before.
>>Orbs make you really think
about how you're never alone,
there's always these loving,
joyous beings around us
constantly if we
rise to the occasion.
>>To me, it has made the
spiritual reality much more
real, much more real
than ever before.
I was always aware
that that exists,
that this spiritual
reality is an extension
of the physical
reality that we have.
But now, we actually
have an evidence of it.
And that is a big thing.
We're not alone.
>>People are being introduced
to unusual phenomena
and becoming used to
that idea, accepting it,
being willing to consider
it, putting the seed
in people's minds.
>>There are many changes
going on right now.
And we can't stop the changes.
We have to go with them.
So it's my hope that, by
educating people about orbs,
they can greet the changes
with love and not fear.
>>And there is a way, I
think, that we can make it
if we follow these signs that
are abundantly out there.
And it just takes a
creative minority,
and then the scale will tip
towards life abundantly.
>>The orbs are a part in this
big increase in consciousness.
>>We're on an epoch change.
We, at this time, more than
ever, need to know who we are.
And we need, more than
ever, to depend upon science
to understand that concept
of the many worlds theory,
so that in one way,
when people know
that, we change our reality.
As the orbs making
a presence know,
in itself, has its by-product.
And its own by-product is
is that, in a small measure,
it gives hope to people
that there are answers
and that there is life
beyond this troubled world
and that the dead do live and
that there is a purpose to us.
And in that small
measure leads to change.
They're not heralding
in anything.
We're just starting to
see for the first time.
And that's huge.
>>If we can just flip the switch
to that entirely new, different
way of understanding
and then being,
a vastly different
world is awaiting us.
>>In the healing arts,
we always say the moment
we move into higher vibrations,
everything is possible.
And I think these
images, to me, represent
what those higher
vibrations really means.
>>It's time now for
us to make the leap
into the new awareness,
the new consciousness.
And that's really what
it's all about, right?
It's about expanding
our consciousness.
>>If we only made the leap.
And it's like jumping
across a crevasse.
You cannot jump across a
crevasse in two stages and stop
halfway to see how you're doing.
>>We're here to make
known the unknown,
not to relive the past.
We start to break from that.
And human consciousness
has a huge morning.
>>I think that how we
increase our awareness,
we increase also our
perception to this phenomenon.
So we are becoming a
new human, if you want.
>>It's just part of our
destiny and our evolution
to experience these other
planes and dimensions
as well as the true self, which
is an inter-dimensional being.
>>You can never kill
consciousness and energy.
You can never destroy a
thought, because you can never
destroy energy.
And we have always been.
And we will always be.
>>This is a very important
aspect that we need to know,
that consciousness will remain.
Your consciousness, my
consciousness will remain.
Well, maybe the orbs
remind us of that.
>>I think that the message
of the phenomenon of orbs
is something that's opening
up that vast perspective
to each and every
one of us today.
We're coming into a new time.
I don't know how fast or
slow that revolution may be.
I suspect it's going to be a
lot more rapid than we think.
>>My biggest hope is that our
species can move gracefully
and with love through
whatever lies ahead.
>>And that's what
we've come for.
That's the beauty of
this time on the planet,
to move through that veil, to
see what's on the other side
and on the other side of
that and on and on and on.
>>It is an evolving,
adventurous journey.
>>It's going to be
incredible, once we
get through this shift and these
changes, what's on their side.
>>The veil is lifting.
>>And it will be a
huge paradigm shift.
We're already on our way there.
>>The doors are open now.
The veils are lifting.
>>Get your digital
camera fully charged
and have your mind fully open.
Come out and play in
this amazing universe.
Photograph and see for
yourself what's out there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]